question came in from a regular viewer
named Martin do you have any advice for
Jaco that would actually help him with
his suicidal thoughts panic attacks
sleep deprivation etc now I have done
quite a few videos about suicide on this
channel
all of them are demonetised if not
banned in your region Fe it's really
pathetic that YouTube is so much more
strictly censored than HBO then Fox TV
then the CBC in Canada I mean these are
all issues we can talk about on public
television in Canada for sure but
YouTube is more censored now if you've
been following this channel for a while
I have been through it people I mean I
could not count the number of times in
my life in which I would have preferred
to die than to continue living and I
phrase it that way
advisedly because I think that is a much
more serious decision to come to then
merely suicidal ideation where the point
is it's not that you're fantasizing
about killing yourself but where you get
to the point in your life where you say
I don't want to live this life anymore
this is so heartbreaking or so terrible
you know I'd rather not continue I'd
rather I'd rather do the decomposing
corpse thing than the waking up and
eating breakfast then continue in my
life then now I would say probably the
single most extreme situation that's why
I mention it in response this question
did combine for real-world problems
psychological emotional sources of
stress problems with health problems as
follows I was living in a huge apartment
building in the middle of Saskatchewan
there are not very many huge towering
buildings like that in Saskatchewan the
whole province this is in Regina
Saskatchewan so if you know downtown
there are only a few big big towers this
is really a huge tower apartment
building
and my apartment building did have a lot
of East Indian immigrants living in it
we had a couple of free energy away
people
it was a tower building and we had we
had old retired white people and when I
started getting bug bites on my legs I
assumed that it was due to fleas from
dogs fleet like you know that kind of
thing that when I was out walking I was
getting these bites on my feet and
ankles walking on the sidewalk and what
I was told a hashtag not racist but
eventually when I discovered this was
that the East Indian families within the
building culturally or what have you
they would actually share or Bedok
between like there were a lot of them or
housewives raising kids there and it
makes sense I mean what we before us me
would be hand-me-down saying but
actually things like duvet covers and
bedding whatever they what they would
they would exchange between apartments
and that this had accelerated the spread
of bedbugs throughout the whole building
now different people react to bed bed
bug bites in different ways I did look
into it over the years at several points
there are several different breeds and
species of bedbugs so not all bedbugs
leave the same bites on you I was bitten
by bedbugs in Southeast Asia once that I
remember very memorable and the type of
that was another thing that threw me was
the type of swelling and the way the
bite looked when I was getting these
bedbug bites in Saskatchewan it did not
look like the bedbug bites in Southeast
Asia so when I was bitten for the first
time in Southeast Asia I really looked
at them in the mirror I really tried to
remember the feeling okay remember this
so that in future you can identify it
when you get bitten by bedbugs and then
here I was in Canada and it's a
different breed or a different variety
the insect and it didn't have the same
effect of me at all but one of the main
effects of the bedbug bites was sleep
deprivation I could not sleep all night
the itching the physical sensation of
discomfort caused by the bite not pain
but the distraction and the itching and
I think just on an instinctual level
it caused restlessness like I would
guess it's an instinct like get up and
get out of here you have parasites
biting you like I'm just a wild
speculation but I I would absolutely I
would go the whole 12 hours you know
through the night not sleeping and so as
it wasn't a ton of I might have three
bites or something but it was much much
worse than the effect of mosquito bites
on me in terms of my we actually do it
now when did this happen in my life my
relationship with my ex-wife was getting
worse and worse that's really not an
honest way to describe situation I had
figured out who my ex-wife were really
was in contrast to who she was
pretending to be and as a result my
opinion of her was getting worse and my
outlook on the future of the
relationship was getting worse and you
know I deeply regretted the trust I put
in her the situation I got into with her
so you can be with someone for a couple
of years and think you know them and
then figure out who they really are
having so kinds of people whatever their
secrets are whether subtle or obvious or
have you not everyone's experience but
some people in the audience are gonna be
going uh-huh I know just what you're
saying and some of you had that
experience when you were teenagers and
some in your 20s and some of your 37
year 40s but whether it's a co-worker or
a lover or your best friend sometimes
you know somebody for a couple of years
before you really know who they are so I
wasn't really up just because I wasn't
really upset about that in a short-term
way but my ex-wife had four very silly
reasons
bought an airplane ticket to go to
Taiwan I could tell all the details
about this trip but it's not that
interesting she really didn't I'm just
saying there's silly reasons at that
time she really didn't have any
we could recently go to Taiwan she
applied for research funding and she
made a trip to Taiwan leaving me alone
in Saskatchewan and I was writing to her
saying I went through all the stages of
this with the sleep deprivation but look
I'm getting these bites I don't think it
can be bedbugs they don't look like
bedbug bites they don't feel like bit
and I'm up all night and is it just you
know that these people have fleas on
their dogs you know what what's what's
the situation here
the combination of extreme hopelessness
about my marriage and who my ex-wife was
she was sending me really nasty really
selfish emails back from where she was
in in Taiwan she was not being an angel
I think we did Skype calls was lying -
we had some had some phone calls back
for us she was she was not being a nice
for loving or supportive person so the
realization of who she was the
realizations about my situation at the
University they're not worth describing
but I was pursuing a combination of
original research and humanitarian work
and it's meaningful life like the Cree
in a jib way and First Nations people
and you know was this kind of bright and
inspiring thing I wanted to do and then
finding out that no it's gonna be
impossible for a bunch of reasons but
mostly is due to the abysmally low
quality of universities in Canada and at
that time I was emailing other
professors and other departments and
universities around around the world
saying well look if I can't do this here
where can I do it so that was really
deep really depressing news that way a
lot of the presses that there's also a
period of time where I was having to
look at throwing all my books in the
garbage like you've worked so hard to
get these books and study these books
and now it's not gonna be part of your
life not party future and you know just
a lot of loss it's very real
so it is Neil's say this is definitely
one of the times in my life where it
absolutely at this point where it's like
you know you know I do not I don't want
to you know continue it was one of the
points you come to the cold horror to
rational decision that you that you'd
rather be dead than alive and of course
what's making it worse is my ex-wife is
not being sympathetic or love
supportive or even just good or even
treating me in a manner that's dignified
or nice or even professional my ex-wife
is being awful to me she's being
unbelievably horrible and self-doubts
self-centered and cruel when I talked to
her about the reality of the situation
man and I mean to give a little bit of
make it a little more sympathetic I
think for her I mean she responded to it
in a way that is in the psychological
sense narcissistic she would respond to
any of this as if it were a criticism of
a shortcoming of hers you know like if I
say like this situation at this
university is it's horrible I mean she's
she's part of course she was the reason
I was at that University she was a
professor at that University we were
actually violating the rules that we
were married but I was technically a
student sleeping with a professor the
rules didn't make exceptions we were
already married before she became a
professor but nevertheless but you know
and she would react to that as if it was
me complaining about her complaining
about the relationship or it's like no
like I'm telling you almost so that's
human
I mean it's human but it's true she was
a very selfish very self-centered and
indeed very narcissistic kind of person
she also has redeeming qualities which
are not the subject what is my advice
for people who are like jaco suicidal
experiencing panic attacks or or
what-have-you
well I've made a lot of different videos
talking with us from different angles
one of the many tragedies of the
professionalization of mourning the
professionalization of soro the
medicalization of human misery is that
people have been trained to separate
sorrow from the circumstances the life
experiences the challenges that cause
that sorrow or in a sense that all the
sorrow okay my situation when I was so
sad there
oh man again I was already vegan I was
already an ethical that was completely
you know whatever I was completely into
this vegan thing and we had to have a
fumigator come and spray the apartment
four times and every time he came I had
to research the chemical being used we
had to pack up all of our belongings
like everything had to be in garbage
bags oh yeah everything you want every
every item of clothing everything to
have the apartment fumigated and then I
had to research the chemical the
pesticide to try to ensure that it
wouldn't have a negative health effect
on my pregnant life because that was
into the time when she was pregnant with
my first more daughter and then this
isn't enough everything so I would do
all this you know my wife would be at
work I have to pack up everything in a
garbage bag I should pack them and put
them on the porch with the apartment and
then we'd have to go and check into a
hotel
for like three days because again you
you redo the reading it would be like
well there can be some negative health
effects from this fumigation but not if
you stay away for let's say it's say 48
hours or 72 hours if you like well
you're pregnant so let's make it four
days or something then go live in a
hotel and let me tell you something
Saskatchewan is not Thailand going and
staying at Hotel in Saskatchewan was
also horrible and that's after she came
back though the darkest period was when
my wife was away and I Nev I didn't even
know that these were bedbugs I didn't
have a fumigator come I was trying to
figure this out and then I talked to the
building manager family she said well
you know these people they share their
bed clothes and yeah the whole the whole
building is full of bedbugs as a result
could have told me but anyway I went
through all this misery and the misery
of course is made worse by by not
knowing um obviously the solution for
why I was feeling so miserable at that
time had to deal with grapping with the
actual circumstances with the actual
problem and change them so look I've
just blamed the medicalization of the
problem the professionalization of the
role of psychiatrist and so on but I
think we all know there's a shallower
level on
we also all learn this in childhood
because whatever is unmaking prepared me
as a child whatever is making you
unhappy
or whatever is perceived to make you
unhappy your parents and your teachers
are going to try to put the burden on
you for you to change your attitude for
you to change your outlook because one
thing's for certain the teacher isn't
gonna change the lessons the school
isn't gonna change anything they're
gonna do your parents don't want to
change their lives they're not gonna
change their work schedule most of the
time for most of us your parents don't
actually want to do anything to help you
not if it involves inconveniencing them
in the slightest way may not be or
experice their parents of whom was with
mine to a ridiculous extent so children
get told a lot to change their attitude
children get told a lot to stop crying
and be happy just because while whatever
it is that's making them happy continues
to be a problem um you know I can
remember like you know my parents were
communists and they were extremists they
were not moderate communists by me at
one point they hired a Filipina nanny to
take care of me they just wanted to do
their own thing don't want to go to work
and go to swingers clubs to throw thing
they live their own crazy left-wing
libertine this lifestyle isn't that much
of a bird in their lives and I can
remember trying to say to my mother and
she was actually on a business call even
when they were home they weren't taken
care of me they were you know and they
were working on many time zones so
they'd be having a business call from
London or Hong Kong you know even though
they're at home they're not really
parenting you know I come up we're
really trying to say to my mother look
you know we have to get rid of this
Filipina nanny this particular au-pair
this particular woman was really
terrible not all the more some were
better some worse of the women only one
was Filipino
the others were other ethnicities um
it's very hard for a child to make that
argument when whatever you're eight
years old or something
to try to convince your parents look
there's a problem and I need you to
actually do something and it's very easy
for parents and teachers as authority
figures to slip into the mode of saying
oh no no the problem is your
the problem is your attitude you know
and what that means is the problem is
you okay and it's not the reason I was
so unhappy when I was in Saskatchewan I
was married to a terrible person
let's put this way I was married to the
wrong person I was married to someone
who very fundamentally lied to me about
who she was I
I bought the package and in some ways I
didn't find out what was under the
wrapping paper until a little too late
guys happens to the best of us how was
the worst of us do let's just say this
worse things have happened to nicer
people you know I'm married to the wrong
person
I'm enrolled at the wrong University
University itself is a disaster that was
on paper a lot of the university's
problems are objectively proven they
were on the edge of being shut down just
at the time I should they don't they had
a lot of objectively real problems not
just my question the particular
department I'm in I never met a single
other student studying the language
there were all these other problems you
know I'm studying a language that well
it's very very hard to learn and very
very hard circumstances and then I find
out there's no way but there were even
by the way part of the problem was just
a technical problem with how my credits
were transferred from the University of
Toronto to this University and it
completely ruined my plans not worth
getting so I mean just say a lot of
these are just objectively real problems
that have emotional consequences but
they aren't about my attitude my
perception and yeah sleep deprivation
caused by bedbugs pitching you know the
pain in my legs and so on being up all
night with swollen bed bug bites and you
can solve those in any order you can
solve all them or not but you know what
you know what would have solved all my
problems running away not joking if I
could have just taken a vacation if I
could have even bought a bus ticket and
taken a Greyhound bus from that horrible
apartment to go to my mother's house in
Toronto my mother and I were not on
speaking terms for over ten years
Oh Vitus had a supporting and loving
family
we're even it was a thousand miles away
if I could have taken a break and
literally escaped the university the
woman I was married to - bedbugs the
infestation the sleep deprivation if I
could if I could have gotten a decent
night's sleep you know decent meal to
get out a few other things or something
now a very very hard being vegan and
Saskatchewan - at that time it's true
actually if I could have if I could have
eaten broccoli and some decent
vegetables what I hoped loke not the
biggest part of the problem yeah you
know what we live in a culture that
vilifies you from quote-unquote running
away from your problems because it's
convenient for people in positions of
authority to make the problem into
anything other than the problem to make
the problem into your attitude and you
and as an adult and if you can as a
child or a teenager you have to have the
self-discipline clarity of focus and
purpose to say no my problems are my
problems and long-term there are going
to be solutions like if you hate your
job and get new job whatever it is those
things take time but sure short-term you
know I don't think there's any course of
treatment or any course of therapy that
could probably do you as much good I
doesn't even have to be a vacation in
Thailand you could you could probably
just take a Greyhound bus to the the
next bleak hopeless City if if there is
a way to get yourself some distance you
know distance can lead to detachment
detachment can lead to introspection
analysis better understanding and once
you have that better analysis of your
problems ultimately you have to push
honest solutions